Add tutorial on setup_codingclub_session() (#206)
inbo/tutorials: content/tutorials/r_setup_codingclub_session/index.Rmd

---
title: "Tutorial setup_codingclub_session()"
description: "Tutorial on how to use setup_codingclub_session() to load data and scripts to use during coding clubs."
author: "Emma Cartuyvels"
date: 2020-10-26
categories: ["r"]
tags: ["data", "r"]
output: 
    md_document:
        preserve_yaml: true
        variant: gfm
---

```{r setup, include=FALSE}
knitr::opts_chunk$set(eval = FALSE)
```

Before each coding club you will usually have to download some data and some scripts.
This can be done manually by going to each of the GitHub pages but it is much easier to use the `setup_codingclub_session()` function of the `inborutils` package.

To begin make sure that you have the latest version of `inborutils` installed by running the following code:

```{r}
if (!"remotes" %in% rownames(installed.packages())) {
  install.packages("remotes")
}
remotes::install_github("inbo/inborutils")
```

> Next load the library:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next load the package:
```

Reviewer 2: Indeed. There are no libraries to load, only packages.

```{r}
library(inborutils)
```

> The function takes four arguments with the following default settings:

Reviewer: Before a list of items, a whiteline is needed. (In index.md it is wrapped into one paragraph)
```suggestion
The function takes four arguments with the following default settings:

```

 - session_date which is set to the present day
 - root_dir which is set to "."

>  - src_rel_path which is set to "src"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - src_rel_path which is set to `"src"`
```

Reviewer 2: I will commit this and I will apply `code style` to arg names as well.

Reviewer: Thanks. The code-style needs to be applied to the other bullets as well, can you add it? (It seems that somehow it already was the case in `index.md`, but not committed in the Rmd file)

Reviewer 2: Done already.

```

Before each coding club you will usually have to download some datasets and some scripts.

> This can be done manually from the correspondent GitHub webpages but it is much easier to use the `setup_codingclub_session()` function of the `inborutils` package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be done manually from the corresponding GitHub webpages but it is much easier to use the `setup_codingclub_session()` function of the `inborutils` package.
```

To begin, make sure that you have the latest version of `inborutils` installed by running the following code:

> ```{r install_inborutils_if_not_present}

Reviewer: it's generally not a good idea to use underscores in R chunk names. R markdown cannot handle them well if you want to refer them. Best use hyphens "-". Applies to this and other chunks.

Reviewer 2: ah, nice to know! I will!

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/inbo/tutorials/pull/206/commits/b295297ab6f2d0428eb8994f24f222e1a4e35873

 - `session_date` which is set to the present day
 - `root_dir` which is set to  the current/project directory `"."`
 - `src_rel_path` which is set to the subdirectory `src`
 - `data_rel_path` which is set to the subdirectory `data`

So when we just run the function like this:

```{r use_default_values}
setup_codingclub_session()
```

We will get the coding club materials for the date of today (if and only if today there is a coding club, otherwise there are no materials and nothing will be downloaded) and these materials will be saved in the `src` and `data` folders of the current working directory or project directory if you work within a RStudio project as recommended in the coding club's [getting started](https://inbo.github.io/coding-club/gettingstarted.html). 
R scripts are downloaded in `src` while datasets are downloaded in `data` using the date of today in the "YYYYMMDD" format as subfolders. Your coding club folder will look like this:

```
├── src
    ├── YYYYMMDD
    │   └── YYYYMMDD_challenges.r
└── data
│   ├── YYYYMMDD
|   │   ├── YYYYYMMDD_filename1.txt
|   │   ├── YYYYYMMDD_filename2.txt   # if more than one dataset is used

>     │   └── ...

Reviewer: I suggest to remove the dangling `|` symbols at the left sides (just replace by space). Here and elsewhere.

Reviewer 2: Done here: https://github.com/inbo/tutorials/pull/206/commits/938379f90a19d0089cd8eb17c50d22be2782dbbb

```

If you want to get the coding club materials for a past date, use the "YYYYMMDD" format, e.g. for material of August 25, 2020: 

```{r change_date}
setup_codingclub_session("20200225")
```

The subfolders `./src/20200225` and `./data/20200225` are automatically created and files downloaded if not present:

```
├── src
    ├── 20200225
    │   ├── 20200225_create_messy_project.r
    │   ├── 20200225_challenges.r
    │   └── 20200225_challenges_solutions.r
└── data
│   ├── 20200225
|   │   └── 20200225_urban_gaia_policy.txt
```

This function is also interactive: before downloading starts a message appears on screen showing the URL of the files to download and the absolute path where R scripts and data will be downloaded, followed by the question: `Do you want to continue? (Y/n)` as shown below:

> ![example_message](figures/example_message_before_download.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![example_message](images/example_message_before_download.png)
```

I'll see whether I can already commit this in order to test it locally. In other words, it currently went wrong :wink:

If everything is ok, enter `Y` (`y` works as well, but it's a kind of a secret...)

> If your folders are not named `src` or `data` (although we recommend to name them as such) but for example `scripts` and `data_codingclub` you can specify them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your folders are not named `src` or `data` (although we recommend to name them as such) but for example `scripts` and `data_codingclub` you can specify them as such:
```

```{r other_subfolders}
setup_codingclub_session("20200225",
                         src_rel_path = "scripts",
                         data_rel_path = "data_codingclub")

```

```
├── scripts
    ├── 20200225
    │   ├── 20200225_create_messy_project.r
    │   ├── 20200225_challenges.r
    │   └── 20200225_challenges_solutions.r
└── data_codingclub
│   ├── 20200225
|   │   └── 20200225_urban_gaia_policy.txt
```

> To make the function even more flexible, you can modify the root directory although you shouldn't need to do it while working within a RStudio project. For example, if you want to move the root to the parent directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make the function even more flexible, you can modify the root directory although you shouldn't need to while working within an RStudio project.
For example, if you want to move the root to the parent directory:
```

```{r other_root_dir}
setup_codingclub_session(root_dir = "../")
```

Last but not least, you can always check examples and documentation [online](https://inbo.github.io/inborutils/reference/setup_codingclub_session.html) or via R console:

```{r help}
?setup_codingclub_session
```

> Doesn't `setup_codingclub_session` work as expected? Do you think there is a bug? Or do you have some ideas to improve the function? Raise your hands! Write an [issue](https://github.com/inbo/inborutils/issues) or contact one of the [INBO coding club organizers](https://inbo.github.io/coding-club/). We will be happy to help you.

Reviewer: General recommendation for markdown + git: split sentences over separate lines (diffs will be smaller).

Reviewer 2: Yes, you are right. Separate lines are still "merged" together. Thanks.

Reviewer 2: Done here: https://github.com/inbo/tutorials/pull/206/commits/684e3a179397784b623376df97f2962615ca778a

> Doesn't `setup_codingclub_session` work as expected? Do you think there is a bug? Or do you have some ideas to improve the function? Raise your hands! Write an [issue](https://github.com/inbo/inborutils/issues) or contact one of the [INBO coding club organizers](https://inbo.github.io/coding-club/). We will be happy to help you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Doesn't `setup_codingclub_session()` work as expected?
Do you think there is a bug?
Or do you have some ideas to improve the function?
Raise your hands!
Write an [issue](https://github.com/inbo/inborutils/issues) or contact one of the [INBO coding club organizers](https://inbo.github.io/coding-club/).
We will be happy to help you.
```

Reviewer 2: Done in https://github.com/inbo/tutorials/pull/206/commits/684e3a179397784b623376df97f2962615ca778a and https://github.com/inbo/tutorials/pull/206/commits/6fa721b714773b8b1e60e86eed7c4d2f71208a3d

I also removed the s in _Raise your hands_ as it is wrong: you raise one hand to ask something, you raise both to party :smile:
